Added WebView2 developer guide (#1124)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/developer-guide.md

---
description: Learn about best practices to use when developing your WebView2 application.
title: WebView2 development best practices  
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.date: 03/04/2021
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
keywords: WebView2, webview2, WebView, webview, edge, best practices  
---
# WebView2 development best practices  

> Every development team follows different practices when building their application. When you build WebView2 applications, there are best practices we recommend you follow. This article outlines those recommendations and best practices for you when building production based WebView2 applications.

Reviewer: "there are best practices" > "these are the practices"

## Use Evergreen WebView2 Runtime  

We generally recommend using the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime instead of the Fixed Version Runtime.  The Evergreen WebView2 Runtime updates automatically and includes the latest features and security patches available to your WebView2 application. The Evergreen WebView2 Runtime also requires less storage space on the disk.

Ensure the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime is installed before using your WebView2 application.  For more information, navigate to [Deploying the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime][Webview2ConceptsDistributionDeployingEvergreenWebview2Runtime].  

> ## Run regular compatibility tests

Reviewer 2: > Run regular compatibility tests

Run compatibility tests regularly for Evergreen apps

> When using the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime, ensure you run regular compatibility tests. Because the runtime is automatically updated, you'll want to ensure that your WebView2 application performs as expected.  For more information, navigate to [Stay compatible in Evergreen mode][Webview2ConceptsDistributionStayCompatibleEvergreenMode].  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When using the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime, ensure you run regular compatibility tests. Because the runtime is automatically updated, you'll want to ensure that your WebView2 application performs as expected.  For more information, navigate to [Stay compatible in Evergreen mode][Webview2ConceptsDistributionStayCompatibleEvergreenMode].  
```
When using the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime, ensure you run regular compatibility tests. Because the runtime is automatically updated, test the web content in the WebView against the non-stable versions of Microsoft Edge to ensure that your WebView2 application performs as expected. This is the same guidance we give to web developers. For more information, navigate to [Stay compatible in Evergreen mode][Webview2ConceptsDistributionStayCompatibleEvergreenMode].

> When using the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime, ensure you run regular compatibility tests. Because the runtime is automatically updated, you'll want to ensure that your WebView2 application performs as expected.  For more information, navigate to [Stay compatible in Evergreen mode][Webview2ConceptsDistributionStayCompatibleEvergreenMode].  

Reviewer: "run regular compatibility tests" > "run compatibility tests regularly".

> ## Ensure APIs are supported by the installed WebView2 Runtime

Reviewer 2: + @pagoe-msft here to take a look since he wrote the relevant doc for this in https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/versioning?branch=user%2Fv-jomar7%2Fdocs%2FwebviewEnhancePractices20210302.

WebView2 applications need both a Webview2 SDK, and a WebView2 Runtime installed on the computer to run. Both the SDK and the runtime are versioned. Since APIs are continually being added to WebView2, new versions of the runtime are also released to support the new APIs. You'll need to ensure that the APIs used by your WebView2 application are supported by the WebView2 Runtime that's installed on the computer. 

> If you use the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime, consider the connectivity scenarios of your users. Some users may not be continually connected to the internet and may not use an updated runtime. When you push an update to your WebView2 application, the application may break because it uses newer APIs that are not available in the installed runtime. 

Reviewer 2: Enterprise also have the option to turn off WebView2 updates which would net you the same problem. Recommend adding the info here.

> If you use the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime, consider the connectivity scenarios of your users. Some users may not be continually connected to the internet and may not use an updated runtime. When you push an update to your WebView2 application, the application may break because it uses newer APIs that are not available in the installed runtime. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime, the runtime may not be on the latest version for limited scenarios. For example, if the user does not have internet access, then the runtime would not be automatically updated in that environment. Certain group policies may also pause WebView2 updates. When you push an update to your WebView2 application, the application may break because it uses newer APIs that are not available in the installed runtime. 
```

> To solve this situation, you can test for the availability of the APIs in the installed runtime, before making a call to the API. To test for API availability in the installed runtime, use:

Reviewer 2: I think we will want code samples in [Determine WebView2 Runtime requirement][Webview2ConceptsVersioningDetermineWebview2RuntimeRequirement] instead of here. + @pagoe-msft.

Reviewer 3: @Reezaali this makes sense to me, to include code snippets in the linked to docs does that seem okay with you?

Reviewer 4: @pagoe-msft - sure! Can you make the update to that doc, and cross-link from this doc please?

Reviewer 3: Ill get some code snippets, lets not block the release of this doc based on this.

> To solve this situation, you can test for the availability of the APIs in the installed runtime, before making a call to the API. To test for API availability in the installed runtime, use:

Reviewer 2: I'd also call out this is similar to web developer's best practice to feature-detect before using newer web APIs.

* The `queryinterface` in C/C++. For more information, navigate to <!--LINK-->
* A try/catch block in .Net or WinUI, as displayed in the following code sample. 

```csharp
    /// Add code snippet that demonstrates how to use the try/catch block
```
    
For more information, navigate to [Determine WebView2 Runtime requirement][Webview2ConceptsVersioningDetermineWebview2RuntimeRequirement].  

## Update the Fixed Version Runtime  

> Depending on your environment, work stoppage due to applications going offline may significantly impact your business.  For example, certain financial or medical applications may have high availability requirements. In these scenarios, you may be required to use the Fixed Version Runtime to control updates to your application. If you use the Fixed Version Runtime, ensure you update your runtime regularly to reduce any potential security risk. When using 3rd-party content in Webview2 applications, always consider the content untrusted.  For more information, navigate to [Fixed Version distribution mode][Webview2ConceptsDistributionFixedVersionDistributionMode].  

Reviewer 2: > Depending on your environment, work stoppage due to applications going offline may significantly impact your business.  For example, certain financial or medical applications may have high availability requirements. In these scenarios, you may be required to use the Fixed Version Runtime to control updates to your application. 

I wouldn't say go this far and call out specific industries. Just say something along the lines of "For scenarios where stringent app compatibility is the top priority, Fixed Version is the recommended WebView2 mode."

Reviewer: I would maybe just remove the first section. The runtime doc should have reasons for choosing Evergreen vs Fixed Version and we should link to it - this doc recommends the evergreen runtime. Instead I think this section should start with "If you use the Fixed Version Runtime..."

> ## Manage new versions  

Reviewer: I think this needs to be more descriptive.
"Manage new versions of the runtime" maybe?

I wonder if this should be a subsection to "Use Evergreen" above.

> Whenever a new version of the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime has been downloaded to the device, running WebView2 applications continue to hold onto the browser process of the previous runtime. To use the new version of the runtime, you'll need to restart or quit the running application. The benefits of this model are any running WebView2 applications won't break and there's no additional memory allocated to a new browser process. A disadvantage of this model is there are additional binaries installed on the disk that won't get cleaned up.

Reviewer 2: > Whenever a new version of the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime has been downloaded to the device, running WebView2 applications continue to hold onto the browser process of the previous runtime. To use the new version of the runtime, you'll need to restart or quit the running application. The benefits of this model are any running WebView2 applications won't break and there's no additional memory allocated to a new browser process. A disadvantage of this model is there are additional binaries installed on the disk that won't get cleaned up.

Whenever a new version of the Evergreen WebView2 Runtime has been downloaded to the device, running WebView2 applications continue to use the previous runtime until the browser process is released. This allows applications to run continuously, but prevents older runtime from being deleted until all usage is released. To use the new version of the runtime, you'll need to release all references to the old WebView2 environment objects or restart the application, and the next time you re-create a new WebView2 environment it will utilize the latest version.

To take action when a new version is available, such as notifying the user to restart the application, you can use the `new version available` event in your .Net and C++ code. If your code handles restarting the application, consider saving the user state before the WebView2 application exits. The following code sample shows how you can use the `new version available` event.

> ```cpp

Reviewer 2: This is the event https://docs.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2environment#add_newbrowserversionavailable for C++. @pagoe-msft can point you to the .net equivalent. Let's point developers there for code samples and such.

Reviewer 3: We don't have many code samples for .NET since we don't have a full sample app, but here is the equivalent .NET API: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2environment.newbrowserversionavailable?view=webview2-dotnet-1.0.774.44

Reviewer: Technically the app doesn't need to restart, just the WebView2. Do we have sample code that demonstrates this? Should we update this recommendation?

Reviewer 2: Let's point folks to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2environment?view=webview2-1.0.774.44#add_newbrowserversionavailable for code sample rather than dup the code here.

    /// Add code snippet that demonstrates how to use the new version available event
```

```csharp
    /// Add code snippet that demonstrates how to use the new version available event

```

## Manage the lifetime of the user data folder 

> When your WebView2 application is installed, a user data folder is created, and contains user data such as cookies, credentials, permissions, and so on.  After the folder is created, your app is responsible for managing and cleaning up the user data folder.  For more information, navigate to [Managing the User Data Folder][Webview2ConceptsUserdatafolder].  

Reviewer 2: > When your WebView2 application is installed, a user data folder is created, and contains user data such as cookies, credentials, permissions, and so on.  After the folder is created, your app is responsible for managing and cleaning up the user data folder.

WebView2 creates a user data folder to store data such as cookies, credentials, permissions, and so on. After the folder is created, your app is responsible for managing the lifetime of user data folder, such as clean-up upon app uninstallation.
